---
title: 'Galaxy Release 24.2'
date: '2025-02-12'
tease: "Check out the newest features and updates on Galaxy!"
hide_tease: false
authors: Scott Cain
tags: [Release]
subsites: [global, all]
---

# 24.2 Galaxy Release (February 2025)

## Highlights

**A Wizard-like Export View for Workflow Invocations**. The workflow invocation
export process has been enhanced with a new wizard-like interface, making it
more guided and user-friendly. This interface simplifies complex processes with
many options, providing a step-by-step approach to exporting workflow
invocations.

![https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/latest/_images/24.2-export-invocation-wizard.gif](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/latest/_images/24.2-export-invocation-wizard.gif)

**Workflow Editor Enhancements: Activity Bar and Undo Stack UI**. The Activity
Bar is now present in the Workflow Editor along side multiple interface
improvements.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/42HZQkC7PHY" title="Galaxy 24.2 - Workflow Editor Enhancements: Activity Bar and Undo Stack UI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Masthead Revision and Activity Bar Improvements**. The Galaxy masthead has
been revised to achieve consistency and reduce redundancy, aligning its
functionality with the Activity Bar.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5NMkcpj-1w8" title="Galaxy 24.2 - Masthead Revision and Activity Bar Improvements" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Improved Navigation and Usability of Collection Builders**. To guide users
towards creating collections of the correct type, Galaxy now provides better
navigation via buttons directly on data collection parameters. Users can create
a collection with the required structure for the input, with pre-filtered items
from their current history, also ensuring compatibility with required file
extensions. Additionally, users can upload datasets directly to the collection
builder.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/y4gNThU_BZE" title="Galaxy 24.2 - Improved Navigation and Usability of Collection Builders" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Enhanced Workflow Invocation View**. The Workflow Invocation View, introduced
in the previous release has been significantly refined to improve the usability
and visualization of workflow runs.

Before:
![https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/master/_images/24.2-invocation-view-improvements-before.png](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/master/_images/24.2-invocation-view-improvements-before.png)
>Steps show on the right, the progress bars are within the Overview tab


After:
![https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/master/_images/24.2-invocation-view-improvements-after.png](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/master/_images/24.2-invocation-view-improvements-after.png)
>Only the currently active step shows below, leaving full width for graph, progress bars in the Header



**Display Metrics for Workflow Invocations**. Galaxy now provides a Metrics tab
in the Workflow Invocation View, allowing users to quickly summarize runtime,
memory usage, and core allocation per invocation. This enhancement helps users
better understand the resource usage of their workflows.

![https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/master/_images/24.2-workflow-invocation-metrics.png](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/master/_images/24.2-workflow-invocation-metrics.png)

**Libraries Modernization: Directory Dataset Picker**. The dataset picker for
user and import directories has been modernized, providing a more intuitive and
user-friendly interface. Users can now easily import files or folders from
their user directory or import directory into a library.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/i8AHdv5sU5A" title="Galaxy 24.2 - Libraries Modernization: Directory Dataset Picker" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Live Reporting of Job Console Outputs**. If enabled by the Galaxy
administrators, it will now be possible to view live console output for running
jobs. The job output will be available on the Job Information page where these
logs have always been available for completed jobs.

**ChatGXY - Job Error Wizard**. With this release, we're excited to introduce
ChatGXY â€” AI assistance built directly into the Galaxy interface. The first
functionality being rolled out is an AI-driven job error diagnoser that
automatically inspects errored jobs and provides actionable insights. Users on
supported servers can access this feature through the Dataset Error interface,
where ChatGXY offers targeted suggestions to help diagnose and resolve job
errors quickly and efficiently.

## Release Notes

Please see the [full release notes](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/master/releases/24.2_announce.html) for all the details!

*Thank you for using Galaxy!*

[The Galaxy Team](https://galaxyproject.org/galaxy-team/)

